---
title: "Kinetics influence of multibody kinematics optimisation for soft tissue artefact compensation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication_mko_sta
excerpt: 'Complementary informations'
date: 2020-05-02
venue: 'Journal of Biomechanics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiomech.2023.111514'
citation: ''
authors: 'Zoé Pomarat, Sacha Guitteny, Raphaël Dumas, <b>Antoine Muller</b>'
teaser: "mko_sta.png"
---

## Abstract
Soft tissue artefact (STA) remains a major source of error in human movement analysis. The multibody kinematics optimisation (MKO) approach is widely stated as a solution to reduce the effects of STA. This study aimed at assessing the influence of the MKO STA-compensation on the errors of estimation of the knee intersegment moments. Experimental data were issued from the CAMS-Knee dataset where six participants with instrumented total knee arthroplasty performed five activities of daily living: gait, downhill walking, stair descent, squat, and sit-to-stand. Kinematics was measured both on the basis of skin markers and a mobile mono-plane fluoroscope, used to obtain the STA-free bone movement. For four different lower limb models and one corresponding to a single-body kinematics optimization (SKO), knee intersegmental moments (estimated using model-derived kinematics and ground reaction force) were compared with an estimate based on the fluoroscope. Considering all participants and activities, mean root mean square differences were the largest along the adduction/abduction axis: of 3.22 Nm with a SKO approach, 3.49 Nm with the three-DoF knee model, and 7.66 Nm, 8.52 Nm, and 8.54 Nm with the one-DoF knee models. Results showed that adding joint kinematics constraints can increase the estimation errors of the intersegmental moment. These errors came directly from the errors in the estimation of the position of the knee joint centre induced by the constraints. When using a MKO approach, we recommend to analyse carefully joint centre position estimates that do not remain close to the one obtained with a SKO approach.
